Add api usage guidance (#316)
aws/aws-eks-best-practices: content/scalability/docs/control-plane.md

- This FlowSchema captures all list event calls made by service accounts in the default namespace.
- The matching precedence 8000 is lower than the value of 9000 used by the existing service-accounts FlowSchema so these list event calls will match list-events-default-service-accounts rather than service-accounts.
- We're using the catch-all PriorityLevelConfiguration to isolate these requests. This bucket only allows 13 inflight requests to be used by these long-running list event calls. Pods will start to receive 429s as soon they try to issue more than 13 of these requests concurrently.

> ## Use Shared Informers for Custom Controllers

Reviewer: Should we add another section here to capture with a heading something like "Monitor resources in API server" and these two could be sub-headings to this?

> When building controllers and automation that integrate with the Kubernetes API you will often need to get information from Kubernetes resources. If you poll for these resources regularly it can cause a significant load on the API server.

Reviewer 2: @rothgar We know this (list vs watch) is a major cause of API server latency/unresponsiveness from the customer tickets we get. Can we change the phrasing a bit to make the reader treat this recommendation with more urgency/seriousness.  Maybe a line or two on the ramifications of "significant load on the API server", and how it can lead to API server latency/slowness/unresponsiveness will help.  Also, perhaps we can callout that this is a common cause of various API server issues/latencies that we see .

Author: I added a top level section with details. LMK what you think

Reviewer 2: LGTM. Thank you for adding this section!

> Using an [informer](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/client-go/informers) from the client-go library will give you benefits of watching for changes to the resources based on events instead of polling for changes. Informers further reduce the load by using shared cache for the events and changes so multiple controllers watching the same resources do not add additional load.

Reviewer: For multiple controllers its more efficient to be using shared informers, if we want to include that as well.

Author: All informers are shared informers AFAIKT. The type for genericInformer has a sharedInformerIndex. Do you know if there's something special that has to be done for shared and not shared informers?

> Polling resources without including labels or namespace scope is especially difficult in large clusters. Each un-filtered poll can require a lot of unnecessary data to be sent from etcd through the API server to be filtered in your controller. By filtering based on labels and namespaces you can reduce the amount of work the API server needs to perform to fullfil the request and data sent to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controllers should avoid polling cluster wide resources without labels and field selectors especially in large clusters. Each un-filtered poll requires a lot of unnecessary data to be sent from etcd through the API server to be filtered by the client. By filtering based on labels and namespaces you can reduce the amount of work the API server needs to perform to fullfil the request and data sent to the client.
```

## Optimize Kubernetes API usage

> When calling the Kubernetes API with custom controllers or automation it's important that you limit the calls to only the resources you need. Without limits you can cause unneeded load on the API server and etcd.

Reviewer 2: @rothgar same comment as above. Pasting it below for reference -
"We know this (list vs watch) is a major cause of API server latency/unresponsiveness from the customer tickets we get. Can we change the phrasing a bit to make the reader treat this recommendation with more urgency/seriousness. Maybe a line or two on the ramifications of "it's important that..." and how it can lead to API server latency/slowness/unresponsiveness will help. Also, perhaps we can callout that this is a common cause of various API server issues/latencies that we see .

> When calling the Kubernetes API with custom controllers or automation it's important that you limit the calls to only the resources you need. Without limits you can cause unneeded load on the API server and etcd.

Reviewer: We should also explicitly call out that following are the recommendations in the order which a client should try to follow when syncing resources from API server.

It is recommended that you use the watch argument whenever possible. With no arguments the default behavior is to list objects. To use watch instead of list you can append `?watch=true` to the end of your API request. For example, to get all pods with a watch use:

```

> /api/v1/pods?watch=true

Reviewer: Since this is the best practices guide we should maybe include watch API call to be namespaced as the first recommendation   `/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods?watch=true`

```

If you are listing objects you should limit the scope of what you are listing. The `fieldSelector` argument and `/namespace/` path can be useful to make sure your lists are as narrowly scoped as needed. For example, to list only running pods in the default namespace use:

```
/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods?fieldSelector=status.phase=Running
```

Or list all pods that are running with:

```
/api/v1/pods?fieldSelector=status.phase=Running
```

You should use a resourceVersion and pagination to further limit lists and reduce load. You can read about [resourceVersions in the Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/api-concepts/#resource-versions). Without a resourceVersion argument you will receive the most recent version available which requires an etcd quorum read which is the most expensive and slowest read for the database. The resourceVersion depends on what resources you are trying to query and can be found in the `metadata.resourseVersion` field.

You should limit your page returns to no more than 500 by appending `limit=500` to your API queries. To list 500 pods that are newer than version 1000 you can use:

```

> /api/v1/pods/?limit=500&resourceVersionMatch=NotOlderThan&resourceVersion=1000

Reviewer: The problem with specifying resourceVersion for List calls is knowing what value to use. Once you set the RV in List call with `resourceVersionMatch=NotOlderThan` API server is going to return all object at that RV and it might be stale data or a future RV. So its hard to set the RV for List calls.

Author: The more I read the docs on this it seems like a scaling safeguard that is difficult to practically implement.

If we don't set a limit then `NotOlderThan` is the default behavior, but if we set `limit` without `resourceVersionMatch` then exact is the default.

I'm fine leaving this section out because I'm not sure how useful it is, but if you think it's still important to include then I'm open to suggestions on how to clarify when it would be practical to use.
